--- 
title: Win 7 network issues workaround: Dual Boot into extended partitions
published: false
tags:
- dualboot
- AV linux
- parition
---

# Interesting bit

## Problem
Max primary partitions on an MRB-based partition scheme is 4. I needed 5.

## Story
Gateway PC from Best Buy has a factory default Windows 7 install with 3 partitions: Gateway, recovery, Windows. I need 2 more partitions for a dual boot (`swap` and at the very least `root`). Swap should be optional, but [AV Linux's](http://www.bandshed.net/AVLinux.html) install protested. At the time of the install, I wasn't sure if

 1. AVLinux+grub would setup hd0,3 Windows boot correctly
 1. grub could boot from an extended partion
 1. grub could boot from ext4 (no /boot parition)
 
## Solution

I made a logical partition from half of what was allocated Windows. I put a 1Gb swap extended partition at the end, and set the rest as an ext4 extended partition. I pointed the AV Linux install at these 2 partitions and everything worked first go around!

# The real story
A family member's Gateway PC has a terrible connectivity experience. Online speed tests are reasonable (8Mbps up;3 down, 2ms ping) but browsing is excruciatingly slow times out often. The computer is connected wirelessly to an xfinity modem+router. Connection issues persist when the browser is pointed to `10.0.0.1`. Ultimately, I decided to set him up with a dual boot. I used the debian derived AV Linux because he does a lot of video editing. 


## Attempts

  1. A USB wireless dongle was just hanging out. That solved the problem for a day.
  1. Factory reset Windows,new host name. No change!
  1. Connectivity is find on a live cd; setup a dual boot.

I still have no idea why the network is garbage on Windows.
